Project Replication Guide

1. Overview

This guide provides step-by-step instructions to replicate, set up, and run the React Native (TypeScript) project. The project includes screens, components, and assets needed to build a mobile application.

2. Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

2.1 Required Software

Node.js (LTS version recommended) - Download Here

npm (comes with Node.js) or yarn

Git (optional for cloning the repository) - Download Here

Expo CLI (if using Expo):

npm install -g expo-cli

Android Studio (for Android development) or Xcode (for iOS development)

VS Code or any IDE (Recommended: VS Code with React Native extensions)

2.2 Additional Dependencies

If using physical devices, install Expo Go (for Expo projects) on your phone.

Ensure adb (Android Debug Bridge) is configured for Android testing.

3. Setting Up the Project

3.1 Obtaining the Project

Option 1: Extract from ZIP

Download the project ZIP file.

Extract it to your desired location.

Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the project folder:

cd path/to/a0-project

Option 2: Clone from Git

If the project is hosted on GitHub or another Git platform:

  git clone <repository_url>
  cd a0-project

3.2 Installing Dependencies

Run one of the following inside the project directory:

Using npm:

  npm install

Using yarn:

  yarn install

4. Running the Project

4.1 Start the Development Server

For Expo Projects:

  npx expo start

This will launch an Expo developer tools interface.

For React Native CLI Projects:

Android Emulator/Device:

  npx react-native run-android

iOS Simulator (Mac Only):

  npx react-native run-ios

5. Project Structure

/a0-project
├── assets/                 # Images, icons, fonts
├── components/             # Reusable UI components
│   ├── VoiceConsultation.tsx
├── screens/                # Different app screens
│   ├── HomeScreen.tsx
├── App.tsx                 # Main entry point
├── package.json            # Project dependencies
├── tsconfig.json           # TypeScript configuration
├── index.ts                # Application bootstrap
├── app.json                # Expo configuration
├── .gitignore              # Files to ignore in Git
└── README.md               # Project documentation

6. Customization & Development

6.1 Editing UI Components

Modify files inside the components/ directory to change the UI elements.

6.2 Adding New Screens

Create a new file inside screens/.

Define your React component.

Import and link it in App.tsx.

6.3 Modifying Assets

Replace icons or images in the assets/ folder.

7. Building for Production

7.1 Generating APK (Android)

  npx react-native run-android --variant=release

7.2 Generating iOS Build

(Mac and Xcode required)

  npx react-native run-ios --configuration Release

8. Troubleshooting

8.1 Common Issues & Fixes

Issue

Solution

"Module not found"

Run npm install again

Metro Bundler not starting

Kill the process with Ctrl+C and restart

Emulator not detected

Ensure Android Studio is running with an emulator

Expo not found

Install it globally: npm install -g expo-cli